

Change Management
=================



Submitting a Request for Change (RFC)
-------------------------------------

Any change in the IT infrastructure can be reactive in response to
internal problems or external requirements, e.g. adverse legislative, or
proactive for seeking efficiency and effectiveness or to enable or
reflect business advantages, or for initiating programs, projects or
service improvements.

A Change in {Product} is a multi-stage process where multiple
stakeholders are involved. The first step is to Request for Change
(RFC). An Change is submitted using the Create a Change dialog box.

To create a Change:

1. Log into your Dashboard from the Technician Portal.

2. Click on **Create** (A Navigation tab) and then click on **Change**
   from the pop-up menu.

   Alternatively, you can use the keyboard shortcut C to open the Create
   a Change dialog box.

   |image1|

Figure 1

|image2|

Figure 2

|image3|

Figure 3

3. Select a Category from section-A (Figure 2). You can search for a
   Category using the search box. A Category can have sub-categories, up
   to 2 levels, and you can select a sub-category as well. The select
   category is highlighted in section-B.

   A Category is a way to categorize a Change. {Product} offers six
   predefined Categories out of the box. With admin rights, you can
   modify the Category list shown in section-A.

4. Section-B (Figure 2) is where you select a template. When you select
   a template, specific fields of the form get auto-populated with
   predefined data. You can create templates for Changes that are
   recurring in nature. The template names appear as a drop-down list.
   Please refer to the Administration Manual to know how to add
   templates for Change.

   Following fields are changed when you select a template:

   a. The Subject line of the Change.

   b. Five classifiers (Priority, Urgency, Impact, Risk, Change Type) of
      the Change.

   c. Category of the Change.

   d. Description of the Change.

5. Name and email of the Requester are prefilled in their respective
   fields in section-C (Figure 2). You can add more people using their
   emails (**Add Cc Email**). They are going to receive all
   notifications received by the Requester.

6. Add the Subject line of the Change in section D (Figure 2). The best
   practice is to keep it short and concise, and it should convey the
   context of the Change.

   Once done with the Subject, it is time to set five classifiers of the
   change. They are as follows:

   e. Priority

   f. Urgency

   g. Impact

   h. Risk

   i. Change Type

   j. Additional Tags

      You can set the classifiers by clicking a label (except Additional
      Tags) and select a pre-defined value from a drop-down list. Learn
      more about classifiers.

      Additional Tags make your Change searchable and identifiable.

7. Enter the description of the Change in section-E (Figure 2). An apt
   description states the reason for the Change and how it affects the
   IT infrastructure.

8. You have to edit the following fields in section-F (Figure 3):

   k. **Technician Group**: A Change requires an assignee who supervises
      the Change cycle. It may happen he is working with a group of
      Technicians. The Technician Group is an explicit way to show the
      group involved with the Change

      The Technician Groups appear as a drop-down list. Learn how to
      create Technician Groups in the Administration Manual.

   l. **Location**: If the Change is taking place at a particular
      Location then you can explicitly mention the Location. Before
      adding it to the Change, you have to add the location in
      {Product}. Learn how to add a Location from the Administration
      Manual.

   m. **Department**: If the Change is specific to a Department then you
      can explicitly mention the same.

      Learn how to add Department in {Product} from Administration
      Manual.

   n. Under Attachments, you upload documents with the Change to assist
      the Change process.

Once you are done with the Create a Change form, hit **Create** to
initiate the Change process.

Change Workflow
---------------

In {Product}, a Change passes through a series of processes which we
call the Change Workflow. The processes have been grouped into five
stages, and each is might have their conditions.

|image4|

Figure 4

The five above mentioned stages are:

-  **Submission**: At this stage, the validity of the Change is checked.
   If it is a valid change then the assigned Technician moves the Change
   forward. The following processes may take place at this stage:

   a. `Technician assignment. <#assigning-a-change>`__

   b. `Appointment of Change Manager <#change-manager>`__.

   c. `Collaboration <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__ with other
      people.

-  **Planning Stage**: At this stage, the stakeholders decide how to
   implement the Change. This is also a knowledge and information
   gathering stage. The following processes may take place:

   a. `Scheduling <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__

   b. `Planning <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__

   c. `Collaborate <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__

   d. `Adding Relations <#adding-relations>`__

   o. Defining the Impact of the Change

-  **Approval Stage**: If the Change requires cross departmental
   approvals, then at this stage such approvals are sought. The
   `Approval <#approval-in-change>`__ process is triggered here. On
   success, the Change moves forward.

   *Note: A single Change can have multiple Approvals.*

-  **Implementation Stage**: Planning is executed with the help of an
   Implementer. The actual change happens at this stage. The following
   processes might take place.

   a. `Appointment of Change Implementer and Change
      Reviewer <#adding-people-to-change>`__.

   b. Collaboration

   c. Adding Relations

   d. `Creating Tasks <#managing-tasks>`__

   e. `Time Log. <#managing-approvals-for-technician.>`__

-  **Evaluate and Close**: The implementation of the Change is audited
   by the Change Reviewer for any discrepancies. This is the last stage
   where the Change is marked as Closed if there are no discrepancies.

Learn more about Change Workflow from our `Use Cases <#use-cases>`__.

Custom Rules
------------

Custom rules allow you to make certain fields compulsory in a particular
Change stage. Please refer Change Workflow. Refer Administration Manual
to know how to set the rules.

*Note: Requires admin rights.*

-  **Submission**:

   a. Having a Change Manager

   b. Having an assigned Technician.

   c. Adding a Location to the Change.

-  **Planning**:

   a. Having schedule and rollout plan.

   b. Setting the Impact of the Change.

   c. Having an assigned Technician.

   d. Having a Backout plan.

   e. Having a Rollout plan.

-  **Implementation**:

   a. Having a Change implementer.

   b. Having all tasks closed.

   c. Having an assigned Technician

-  **Review**:

   a. Having a Change reviewer.

   b. Having an assigned Technician

You can make adding a note to a Change a compulsory thing before doing
certain activities, they are:

-  Change Category of a Change.

-  Change Location of a Change.

-  Change Department of a Change.

-  Change assigned Technician of a Change.

Change List View
----------------

{Product} provides an intuitive interface to manage the processes
associated with Change Management. The entire interface is divided into
Change List View and Change Details View.

The Change List View is the central hub for **Technicians** to track and
manage all Changes in the tool.

**To open Change List View**

9.  Log in to your Dashboard from the Technician Portal.

10. Click on **Change** from the Navigation Tabs. The Change List View
    opens with the default filter set as **All Open Changes**.

    |image5|

Figure 5

|image6|

Figure 6

Please refer to Figure 6 for the below description:

-  Section-A, B, & C are the `search features <#searching-changes>`__.

-  Section-D houses the bulk-operations which are:

   p. `Bulk Update <#bulk-update>`__

   q. `Archive <#deleting-changes>`__

   r. `Claim and Assign <#assigning-a-change>`__

-  Section-E is the list area for all the Changes in the system.
   Visibility of a Change depends on the applied filters, and the way
   Changes are shown depends on whether Detailed View is selected or
   Glance View (section-G in Figure 6). Regardless of the view, the
   following information is visible about a Change:

   |image7|

Figure 7

a. Three `classifiers <#classify-an-change>`__ which are:

   i.   The stage of the Change as Status.

   ii.  The Priority of the Change which can be modified.

   iii. The Due status of the Change which can be modified by click on
        the label.

s. Name of the requester and create time of the Change.

t. The subject line of the Change along with its ID.

u. Assignee information or the **Claim** and **Assign** button. If the
   Change is closed, then you see the **Reopen** button.

v. Action menu next to **Assign** or **Reopen** houses the `View Audit
   Trail <#use-cases>`__ and **Open in New Tab** options.

-  Section-F is the Glance Pane (visible only in Grid View)of a Change,
   and it shows the following information:

   a. Change ID and Subject line.

   w. The entire Metadata of the Change.

   x. Requester details under **Details** tab.

   y. The **Activity** tab shows the `Audit Trail <#use-cases>`__ of the
      Change.

   z. The **Attached CI** tab lists all Assets linked to the Change.

-  Section-G is where you select the maximum number of Changes visible
   per page, and the view, Table View or Grid View.

   a. In Grid View, the listings are more descriptive and explicit
      compared to Table View. You can view additional information in the
      Glance Pane of a Changes.

      |image8|

Figure 8

a. Table View is minimalistic which shows minimum information without
   the Glance Pane. The focus is to give you the most critical
   information.

   |image9|

Figure 9

Searching Changes 
------------------

There are two broad ways to search a Change in the `List
View <#change-workflow>`__.

-  Using a search bar

-  Using custom and predefined filters.

Using Search Bar
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

{Product} has a search bar for searching all available Changes in the
system. It supports the Advanced Search feature which allows you to use
a combination of pre-defined search options and keywords. If you want to
see the list of available options, then click on the search bar. You can
select an option or multiple options from the drop-down list.

|image10|

Figure 10

You can search Changes with keywords in the search field. When you
provide a keyword, {Product} searches all the Changes with the keyword
in Subject, Description, Tags, Symptom, Root Cause, Requester Email and
ID fields. The product shows all matched Changes in the list area. In
case of multiple keywords, all keywords need to be matched.

|image11|

Figure 11

You can make a query using a chain of predefined options and keywords.
You can save a search query as a filter, refer Figure 11. Saved search
queries appear in the section-A of Figure 6.

For example, you are looking for all Changes containing the word Server
in the Subject line and have a medium Priority. You would have the
following search query:

|image12|

Figure 12

Between two different conditions of the same data type OR logic
prevails. Between different data types, AND logic prevails. An example
of same type conditions is Change Type Emergency vs. Change Type Normal
Change. Between keywords and conditions AND logic is followed.

Using Filters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  The header section of the List View offers five quick filters to sort
   the Change list. They are as follows:

   |image13|

Figure 13

a. **All Open Changes**: It shows all the unclosed Changes in the
   system.

a. **All Emergency Changes**: It shows all Changes with the Change Type
   set to Emergency.

b. **My Open Changes**: It shows all unclosed Changes with you as the
   assignee.

c. **My Over Due Changes**: It shows all Changes past their due date
   with you as the assignee.

d. **All Open Changes in My Group**: It shows all the Changes with a
   Technician Group you are part of.

-  You can filter the available Changes in the List View based on their
   stage. The tools for this is available in Change List View. The tool
   also gives you a quick view of the distribution of all the Changes
   across all the stages.

   |image14|

Figure 14

Assigning a Change
------------------

Assigning a Change to a Technician makes that person responsible for the
Change. He/she becomes the point of contact for all matters related to
the Change. An assigned Technician has the privilege to initiate an
Approval process in the Approval stage.

A Technician, with the necessary rights, can assign a Change to another
Technicians or claim it for himself/herself.

**To Assign a Change:**

1. Click on **Assign** either on the `Change List
   View <#change-workflow>`__ or Details View of a Change.

11. A popup menu opens with a search bar and a list of Technicians. The
    color ring next to the names represents the workload.

    |image15|

Figure 15

12. Click on the Technician name whom do you want to assign.

A Technician can assign himself using the Claim button. Clicking on
Claim either on the `Change List View <#change-workflow>`__ or Details
View makes you the assignee of the Change.

**To Assign Multiple Changes:**

1. Go to the `List View <#change-workflow>`__.

13. Select two or more Changes in the list area. **Claim** and
    **Assign** buttons appear above the pane.

    |image16|

Figure 16

14. You can either claim the selected Changes or assign them to other
    Technicians. Perform the action that you want.

Inside a Change
---------------

Once a Technician decides to work on a Change, he heads to the Details
View. Every Change has a Details View that houses all related
information and tools to make the Change move through all the defined
stages.

Change Details View
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Details View is the central hub for all process related activities.
It organizes and manages all information and the workflow related to a
Change. Every Change has its own Details View.

1. Go to the `Change List View <#change-workflow>`__.

15. Scroll down to the list area and click on the name of a Change. The
    Details View opens.

|image17|

Figure 17

|image18|

Figure 18

-  Section-A, B & C are the `classifiers <#classify-an-change>`__.

-  Section-C also houses the feature to `link Knowledge Base with
   Change <#adding-people-to-change>`__.

-  Section-D provides tools to manage the `Change implementation
   workflow <#use-cases>`__.

-  Section-E houses tools to `schedule Change
   period <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__.

-  Section-F houses the following functions:

   e. `Collaborate <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__

   f. `Relations <#adding-relations>`__

   g. `Task <#managing-approvals-for-technician.>`__

   h. `Time Log <#managing-approvals-for-technician.>`__

   i. `Approvals <#approval-in-change>`__

-  Section-G shows you information about the Requester and the time of
   creation of the Change.

-  Section-H houses the following functions:

   a. `Claim and Assign <#assigning-a-change>`__

   b. `View Audit Trail <#use-cases>`__

-  Section-I is where all the related Assets (Configuration Items) are
   shown.

-  Section-J is where `Planning <#collaborate-schedule-and-planning>`__
   details are stored.

Modifying a Change’s Subject and Description
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Below the header section of the Details View is the Change ID and
subject line. Next to the subject line is an edit icon that you can use
to modify the Subject and Description.

|image19|

Figure 19

**To edit Subject and Description:**

-  Click on the edit icon. A new dialog box opens.

-  Modify the Subject and Description fields and hit **Update**.

   |image20|

Figure 20

Classify an Change
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

{Product} provides a lot of avenues to classify the information of a
Change. Go to the `Details View <#change-details-view>`__ of a Change
where you get the following ways to classify:

|image21|

Figure 21

|image22|

Figure 22

-  **Status**: The stage of the Change is shown as Status. There are
   five broad stages that a Change has to go through in order to become
   a Change. This label is automatically updated by the system as the
   Change moves through the stages.

-  **Custom Tags**: These are additional tags that the Requester and
   Technicians can provide. It is a way to categorize the Change when
   default options are not enough.

-  **Due**-**Status**: This label classifies the Change based on the
   number of hours/days before expiry of the scheduled change. This
   classification happens after Change Schedule is set in the Planning
   stage.

-  **Importance**: The Change can be categorized based on its level of
   criticality in the following ways:

   a. **Priority**: Setting this label classifies the Change based on
      its criticality to the business. The Priority labels are
      system-defined and immutable.

   j. **Urgency**: Setting this label classifies the Change based on
      time bound urgency. The label has predefined values that are
      immutable, and they are Low, Medium, High, and Urgent.

   k. **Impact**: Setting this label shows the aspect of a business on
      which a Change has its effect which is either on a User,
      Department or Business.

   l. **Risk**: Setting this label classifies the Change based on the
      risk that it possesses to the IT infrastructure.

-  **Change Type**: Setting this field classifies the Change based on
   its magnitude.

-  **Technician Group**: The product allows grouping of Technicians into
   groups. Setting this field shows which group the Change belongs.

-  **Place**: An Change can be classified based on the associated
   physical locations which are:

   *Note: Below both fields have predefined values (as a drop-down list)
   set by the Administrator.*

   a. **Department**: If the Change is related to a particular
      department, then this field can be set to that department.

   m. **Location**: If the Change is related to a particular location,
      then this field can be set to that location.

-  **Category**: It is the primary method to categorize the Change. You
   get six predefined categories out of the box to choose from.

-  **Change Reason Type**: You can classify the Change based a reason
   predefined in the system. You get the following reasons to choose
   from:

   a. New Rollout

   b. Technology Upgrade

   c. Configuration Update

   d. Maintenance Update

-  **Target Environment**: You can set the environment where the change
   is going to happen as either:

   a. Production

   b. Development

   c. Test

Adding People to Change
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Apart from the assigned Technician, a Change requires three more people.
All of them are added from the **More Details** section in a Change’s
`Details View <#change-details-view>`__.

|image23|

Figure 23

Change Implementer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

He is the Technician who is responsible for the implementation of the
Change. He supervises actions that are derived from the Planning stage.
Anyone with the necessary rights can add this person as long as the
Change has an assigned Technician.

Change Manager
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

He is the Technician who is responsible for the entire Change cycle.
Anyone with the necessary rights can add this person as long as the
Change has an assigned Technician.

Change Reviewer
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

He is the Technician who audits the implementation of the Change. His
job is to see whether the Implementation is successful or not. Anyone
with the necessary rights can add this person as long as the Change has
an assigned Technician.

Linking Knowledge with Change 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can link a Knowledge Article/FAQ with a Change by following the
below steps:

1. Go to the `Details View <#_Accessing_the_Change_1>`__ of a Change.

   |image24|

Figure 24

16. Click on **Search Knowledge** on the Details View. A dialog box
    opens.

    |image25|

Figure 25

17. In the dialog box, you see a search bar and a list area. Use the
    search bar to search for Knowledge Articles/FAQs. The list area
    shows the available Knowledge content. You can preview an
    Article/FAQ by clicking on it.

18. Select an Article/FAQ that you want to link. Click on the **Link**
    button below. The Knowledge content gets linked to the Change. You
    can view the relationship in the **Relations** tab of the Change. In
    the same way, you can link multiple Articles/FAQs.

Collaborate, Schedule and Planning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `Details View <#change-details-view>`__ of a Change gives the tools
for a Technician to collaborate with other Technicians; schedule a
timeline for the change process; and record planning details regarding
the change.

-  **Collaborate**: There are multiple stakeholders in a Change, and
   anyone with the Change update permission can start a conversation,
   keeping all of them in a loop.

   |image26|

Figure 26

Under the **Collaborate** tab (`Details View <#change-details-view>`__),
you get the options to add a **Collaborate** or **Note**. In either
case, you get an editor where you put the message. Using @, you can
direct the message to a specific person.

|image27|

Figure 27

|image28|

Figure 28

Once a conversation is added, you cannot edit or delete it.

-  **Schedule**: Once a Change goes to the planning stage, the assigned
   Technician can schedule the entire change process. As an assigned
   Technician, you can enter a Start Time and End Time for the following
   sub-schedules:

   |image29|

Figure 29

n. **Change Schedule**: It is the period of the entire Change process.

o. **Down Time**: If the Change can cause an interruption in business
   processes, then you can mention the period of the same (requires you
   to first set the **Roll Out Schedule**).

p. **Roll Out Plan**: It is the period for the actual implementation of
   the Change (requires you first set the **Change Schedule**).

-  **Planning**: As an assigned Technician, you can record the details
   of the Planning under three heads:

   |image30|

Figure 30

a. **Impact**: Textual information about the effects of the Change in
   the Business.

q. **Rollout Plan**: The detailed plan on how the Change is implemented.

r. **Backout Plan**: A backup plan in case something goes wrong while
   commencing the Change.

Adding Relations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

{Product} helps Technicians to build contextual information by building
relationships between various events in the system. The Relations tab in
the `Details View <#change-details-view>`__ of a Change serves this
purpose.

The Relations tab gives you an option to create relationships between a
Change and other Changes, Requests, Problems, Knowledge Articles/FAQs,
and Assets.

|image31|

Figure 31

You can view the present relationships of the Change in **Relation
For**.

|image32|

Figure 32

You can create a new Request, Problem, Change or Asset and link it to an
existing Change using the **Create and Relate** button.

The **Add Relation** option lets you add one or more relationships.
Clicking **Add Relation** opens a pop-menu where you select what you
want to link (Request, Problem, Change (Change) or Asset). A dialog box
opens with a list of items and a search dialog box; the search bar
supports Advanced Search features where you can search for items with
predefined search options and keywords. You can perform a link by
selecting the items and clicking on **Link**.

|image33|

Figure 33

Approval in Change
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the Approval stage, you might need an Approval from approvers (it may
be a single approver) to move the Change to the next stage.

|image34|

Figure 34

Different States in an Approval Process
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Approval Pending:

-  Approval Rejected:

-  Approval Pre-Approved:

-  Approval Approved:

Manually Adding Approval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Clicking on **Add** (Figure 34) opens the Create an Approver dialog box.

|image35|

Figure 35

Using the dialog box, you can create an Approval with multiple
approvers. The assigned approvers get notified immediately. You can have
two types of Approval:

-  **Unanimous**: All of the approvers have to approve else the Approval
   is rejected.

-  **Majority**: If the majority of approvers agree then Approval is
   successful.

Asking for Approval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can check whether an Approval Workflow is set or not by clicking on
**Ask For Approval**. An Approval Workflow has conditions based on that
approvers are automatically set. If conditions of a workflow are not
triggered or there’s no workflow then the Change is Pre-Approved and the
Approval moves to next stage.

*Note: Refer to Administration Manual to know more about Approval
Workflows.*

Approval Process
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Whether you create Approval manually or ask for Approval, once
   created it follows the same Approval process.

-  Technicians can view all the approvers, their statuses and comments
   in the Approvals tab.

   |image36|

Figure 36

Once an Approval is set, the Approval status of the Change changes to
**Pending** and it stays there as long as the approver/approvers don’t
express a decision.

-  An approver can see his Approvals in the **My Approvals** section of
   his account.

|image37|

Figure 37

Clicking on **My Approvals** (Figure 37) opens the My Approval page
where he can view his Approvals.

|image38|

Figure 38

Clicking on a Change Approval in **My Approval** opens a page with the
title of the Approval as the header title. There he can perform the
following actions:

|image39|

Figure 39

a. Review the details, schedule, related Assets, planning and comments
   of the Change.

s. Start a comment thread which is visible to anyone having access to
   the comment section.

t. Reject or Approve the Approval

-  The outcome of an Approval process is decided in two ways:

   a. **Unanimous**: All of the Approvers have to approve else the
      Approval is rejected.

   u. **Majority**: If the majority of Approvers agree then Approval is
      successful.

-  On success, the Approval moves to the Approved status and the Change
   goes to the next stage. On failure, the Approval moves to the
   Rejected status and the Change doesn’t move forward; you can put it
   back to the Planning stage, close it or re-initiate the Approval
   process.

   |image40|

Figure 40

-  If a Technician has the right to ignore approvers (refer
   Administration Manual), then he can ignore non-responsive approvers
   and push the Approval towards Approved stage. An ignored approver can
   only see his status as Ignored in the Details View of the Change,
   because an approver cannot see the Approvals where he/she was ignored
   in his/her **MY Approvals** section.

   Ignoring all the approvers in an Approval changes the Approval status
   to Approved. The assigned Technician, only if he has the rights, can
   ignore an entire Approval using the **Re-Approve** option where a
   duplicate Approval is created and the original Approval is ignored.
   The Technician can also use the Re-Approve option to create duplicate
   Approvals in case he gets stuck in the Change Approval stage due to a
   rejection.

-  During an Approval process, the following things cannot be modified:

   a. Risk of the Change.

   v. Change Type

Managing Approvals for Technician.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A Technician can have multiple Approvals with the same approvers or
different ones. Between multiple Approvals, whether to go with unanimous
or majority can be set from **Admin** (A Navigation Tab) >> **Approval
Workflow** (Automation) >> **Approval Settings**, but the rights to do
it lies with the Super Admin.

|image41|

Figure 41

Clicking on the Comment Icon in Figure 41 opens the comment dialog box.
Anyone can comment as long as the dialog box is visible to them.

Time Log
~~~~~~~~

Once a Change moves to the Implementation stage, Technicians (including
the assigned Technician) working to implement the Change can log their
time spent working in the **Time Log** section.

Adding a Time Log:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to **Change** >> `List View <#change-workflow>`__.

1. Select a Change and go to its `Details
   View <#change-details-view>`__.

19. Scroll down to the **Time Log** tab and click on it.

    |image42|

Figure 42

20. In Time Log tab, you can view all the logs, if any. Click on **Add**
    to add a new log. A dialog box opens.

    |image43|

Figure 43

21. In the dialog box, enter a Start Date Time (e.g., Mon, Dec 11, 2017,
    5:12 PM) and an End Date Time (e.g., Mon, Dec 11, 2017, 10:10 PM),
    and hit **Add** to save your log.

Edit/Delete a Time Log:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to the `Details View <#change-details-view>`__ of the Change.

2. Scroll down to **Time Log** tab and click on it. You can view all
   your logs under the tab.

   |image44|

Figure 44

3. Perform edits using the Edit Icon adjacent to a log. Alternatively,
   you can delete them using the Delete Icon.

Managing Tasks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sometimes implementing a Change becomes a collaboration between multiple
Technicians; which is why the tool allows delegation of tasks from the
Details View of a Change.

Once a Change reaches the Implementation stage, you can create Tasks
related to the Change and assign them to Technicians. Assignees get
notified immediately.

*Note: In order to work with Tasks in a Change. The Change has to have
an assigned Technician.*

|image45|

Figure 45

Adding a Task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Clicking on **Add Task** (Figure 45) in **Tasks** (in Details View)
opens the Add Task dialog box (Figure 46) where you can create and
assign n number of Tasks.

|image46|

Figure 46

A Task assignee sees his Task/Tasks on his Dashboard under **My Tasks**.

|image47|

Figure 47

**Edit/Delete a Task**

In the `Details View <#change-details-view>`__, the Tasks appear as a
list. There you can perform modifications to a Task and add notes (notes
are additional information).

|image48|

Figure 48

Anyone with the manage task rights can edit Tasks in a Change using the
edit icon. Same is true for deleting a Task using the delete icon
(Figure 48).

Adding a Note
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Clicking on the note icon next to delete opens the Add Note dialog box.

|image49|

Figure 49

Here anyone with the manage task rights can add a note for all the
stakeholders to see. In the dialog box, click on **Add Notes** to add a
Note.

Closing a Task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Anyone with the manage task rights can go to the `Details
View <#change-details-view>`__ and close a Task either by clicking on
**Done** or setting the Status of the Task to Closed.

Use cases
---------

Change Workflow without Rejection:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  The workflow starts with the submission of a Change (Request for
   Change) by a Requester.

-  A Technician is `assigned <#use-cases>`__ to the Change, and then he
   assigns a Change Manager.

-  Either the Assignee, Change Manager or anyone with the update Change
   right can approve the Change, and it then moves to the Planning
   Stage.

-  In the Planning stage, anyone who has the update Change right can
   complete the Planning stage and move the Change to the Approval
   stage.

-  In the Approval stage, the assigned Technician appoints approvers for
   `Approval <#approval-in-change>`__. He can appoint n number of
   approvers.

   An approver gets to see his Approvals in the **My Approvals** section
   of his account.

   |image50|

Figure 50

Clicking on **My Approvals** (Figure 50) opens the My Approvals page
where the approver can view his Approvals.

|image51|

Figure 51

Clicking on an Approval opens a page with the subject line as the page
header title. It resembles the `Details View <#change-details-view>`__
of a Change but has no editing capabilities.

Here the approver can start conversation threads and finally decide
whether to approve or reject the Approval. Anyone can be part of these
conversation threads as long as he/she has access to the comment
section.

|image52|

Figure 52

-  On approval, either unanimous or majority, the Change moves to the
   Implementation stage. A Technician with update Change right assigns a
   Change Implementer and Change Reviewer.

   At this stage, the Change is implemented. On success, the Change is
   marked as Completed.

-  The Change moves to the final stage where the Change Reviewer audits
   the Change implementation. On successful audit, the Change is marked
   as Completed. This ends the journey of the Change in the system.

Change Workflow with Rejection:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At any given stage a Change can be either rejected or put on hold.

-  In Submitted and Planning stage, any Technician with update Change
   rights can reject the Change using the **Rejected/Cancelled** button
   after the Change has an assigned Technician.

   The **Req.Info** (button name can be modified and additional buttons
   can be added) button (Figure 53) puts the Change on a custom status.
   It is a way to tell the requester to provide further information for
   the Change to move forward.

   |image53|

Figure 53

-  In Approval and Implementation stage, the **Rejection** button
   rejects a stage. A Technician can put the Implementation on a custom
   status (Backout and other custom buttons) or send the Change back to
   Planning stage by clicking on **Back to Planning** (Only after
   rejecting the stage).

   |image54|

Figure 54

-  The In-Review stage has the **Req.info** (you can add other custom
   buttons) for putting the Change on a custom status and **Failed** to
   reject.

On rejection, a stage turns red, and the Technician can close the Change
by clicking on **Close this Change** situated in the top right corner of
the page.

|image55|

Figure 55

|image56|

Figure 56

The Change reaches the last stage and closes with the status Closed. A
Technician can reopen the Change by clicking on **Reopen** (Figure 56).

Viewing Audit Trail of a Change 
--------------------------------

The Audit Trail shows all the changes made to a Change, except
collaborative actions (Collaboration, Relations, Tasks, Approval, and
Time Log). You can view the Audit Trail of a Change in the following
ways:

Viewing from Change List View:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Go to the `Change List View <#_Accessing_the_Change>`__.

22. Select a Change from the list area. The Glance Pane becomes visible
    next to Change.

    |image57|

Figure 57

23. The Activity tab in the Glance Pane is the Audit Trail.

24. You can open Audit Trail in a separate dialog box by clicking **View
    Audit Trail** in the Action Menu adjacent to the Assignee
    information of a Change.

    |image58|

Figure 58

Viewing from Change Details View:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Go to the `Details View <#change-details-view>`__ of a Change

25. You can open Audit Trail in a separate dialog box by clicking **View
    Audit Trail** in the Action Menu adjacent to the Assignee
    information of a Change.

    |image59|

Figure 59

Bulk Update
-----------

The product allows Technicians to change details of multiple Changes at
once.

To perform Bulk Update:

-  Go to the `List View <#change-workflow>`__.

-  Select more than one Changes.

-  The **Bulk Update** button appears above the list area. Click on
   **Bulk Update** and a dialog box opens.

   |image60|

Figure 60

You can change the following things:

a. Change the assignee of the Changes.

b. Modify the Technician Group.

c. Change five `classifiers <#classify-an-change>`__ ( Priority,
   Urgency, Impact, Risk and Change Type).

d. Add new tags or append to the existing ones.

e. Change Category, Source, Department and Location.

f. In addition to the above you can also set the following:

   iv. **Change Implementer**: It is the Technician who implements the
       Change.

   v.  **Change Manager**: It is the Technician who supervises the
       entire Change process.

   vi. **Change Reviewer**: It is the Technician who audits the
       implementation of the Change.

-  When you are done hit **Update** (number of Changes to be changed is
   shown) and your changes are saved.

Deleting Changes
----------------

Deleting is a bulk operation which means you can delete multiple Changes
at once.

-  Go to **Change** >> `List View <#change-workflow>`__.

-  Select a Change or Changes from the list area.

-  Click **Archive**, and you get a confirmation message; click **Yes**
   to delete the selected Change/Changes.

   |image61|

Figure 61

.. |image0| image:: media/image1.jpeg
   :width: 17.61528in
   :height: 11.74236in
.. |image1| image:: media/image2.png
   :width: 4.60139in
   :height: 4.66103in
.. |image2| image:: media/image3.png
   :width: 5.02806in
   :height: 2.42092in
.. |image3| image:: media/image4.png
   :width: 5.06902in
   :height: 1.36112in
.. |image4| image:: media/image5.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 0.76806in
.. |image5| image:: media/image6.png
   :width: 2.28742in
   :height: 2.35103in
.. |image6| image:: media/image7.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 3.33238in
.. |image7| image:: media/image8.png
   :width: 5.58056in
   :height: 0.59911in
.. |image8| image:: media/image9.png
   :width: 5.20441in
   :height: 0.93069in
.. |image9| image:: media/image10.png
   :width: 4.79569in
   :height: 0.43441in
.. |image10| image:: media/image11.png
   :width: 2.88692in
   :height: 3.8125in
.. |image11| image:: media/image12.png
   :width: 5.52847in
   :height: 1.02717in
.. |image12| image:: media/image13.png
   :width: 5.56761in
   :height: 2.43159in
.. |image13| image:: media/image14.png
   :width: 5.26042in
   :height: 2.79167in
.. |image14| image:: media/image15.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 1.56528in
.. |image15| image:: media/image16.png
   :width: 3.16667in
   :height: 2.27564in
.. |image16| image:: media/image17.png
   :width: 3.91027in
   :height: 2.10417in
.. |image17| image:: media/image18.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 3.03681in
.. |image18| image:: media/image19.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 1.83264in
.. |image19| image:: media/image20.png
   :width: 4.59097in
   :height: 0.6419in
.. |image20| image:: media/image21.png
   :width: 4.53237in
   :height: 2.72917in
.. |image21| image:: media/image22.png
   :width: 6.13194in
   :height: 1.90562in
.. |image22| image:: media/image23.png
   :width: 5.56833in
   :height: 1.36906in
.. |image23| image:: media/image24.png
   :width: 5.80972in
   :height: 1.95159in
.. |image24| image:: media/image25.png
   :width: 3.89165in
   :height: 2.49038in
.. |image25| image:: media/image26.png
   :width: 5.70707in
   :height: 2.41346in
.. |image26| image:: media/image27.png
   :width: 4.87222in
   :height: 2.72274in
.. |image27| image:: media/image28.png
   :width: 4.90347in
   :height: 2.27572in
.. |image28| image:: media/image29.png
   :width: 5.01767in
   :height: 0.91503in
.. |image29| image:: media/image30.png
   :width: 5.09097in
   :height: 2.07057in
.. |image30| image:: media/image31.png
   :width: 4.58056in
   :height: 2.89063in
.. |image31| image:: media/image32.png
   :width: 4.39257in
   :height: 1.85417in
.. |image32| image:: media/image33.png
   :width: 5.04931in
   :height: 1.53281in
.. |image33| image:: media/image34.png
   :width: 6.03889in
   :height: 1.29462in
.. |image34| image:: media/image35.png
   :width: 3.99351in
   :height: 1.31112in
.. |image35| image:: media/image36.png
   :width: 4.616in
   :height: 3.16068in
.. |image36| image:: media/image37.png
   :width: 4.04167in
   :height: 1.84261in
.. |image37| image:: media/image38.png
   :width: 3.45553in
   :height: 3.50109in
.. |image38| image:: media/image39.png
   :width: 4.62437in
   :height: 1.52083in
.. |image39| image:: media/image40.png
   :width: 5.6782in
   :height: 3.05208in
.. |image40| image:: media/image41.png
   :width: 3.70533in
   :height: 3.2924in
.. |image41| image:: media/image37.png
   :width: 5.18881in
   :height: 2.3656in
.. |image42| image:: media/image42.png
   :width: 3.75in
   :height: 1.54744in
.. |image43| image:: media/image43.png
   :width: 3.94792in
   :height: 2.94621in
.. |image44| image:: media/image44.png
   :width: 3.29861in
   :height: 1.42551in
.. |image45| image:: media/image45.png
   :width: 5.13819in
   :height: 1.54613in
.. |image46| image:: media/image46.png
   :width: 4.51806in
   :height: 3.02489in
.. |image47| image:: media/image47.png
   :width: 4.72053in
   :height: 2.13381in
.. |image48| image:: media/image48.png
   :width: 4.4375in
   :height: 1.82052in
.. |image49| image:: media/image49.png
   :width: 4.30972in
   :height: 2.00589in
.. |image50| image:: media/image38.png
   :width: 4.21597in
   :height: 4.27156in
.. |image51| image:: media/image50.png
   :width: 5.88264in
   :height: 1.50097in
.. |image52| image:: media/image51.png
   :width: 5.36689in
   :height: 2.5625in
.. |image53| image:: media/image52.png
   :width: 4.15683in
   :height: 1.62523in
.. |image54| image:: media/image53.png
   :width: 3.93805in
   :height: 1.62523in
.. |image55| image:: media/image54.png
   :width: 3.69843in
   :height: 1.61481in
.. |image56| image:: media/image55.png
   :width: 5.18472in
   :height: 1.1678in
.. |image57| image:: media/image56.png
   :width: 5.37119in
   :height: 2.2613in
.. |image58| image:: media/image57.png
   :width: 4.79142in
   :height: 1.44208in
.. |image59| image:: media/image58.png
   :width: 3.54167in
   :height: 3.00327in
.. |image60| image:: media/image59.png
   :width: 4.123in
   :height: 3.89936in
.. |image61| image:: media/image60.png
   :width: 4.88284in
   :height: 2.97797in
